The most secure and recommended way of securing your single‑page application,
and don't take my word for it,
this comes directly from the OAuth 2 Working Group,
is to let Spring Security handle the OAuth 2 authentication
flow for your single‑page application. Your users will
access the application domain.
This request will be intercepted by Spring Security's DelegatingFilterProxy.
The user, at this stage, is not authenticated, hence Spring
Security will redirect them to the authorization server to be
authenticated and to get their consent.
The auth server then returns the auth code via a redirect, and Spring
Security exchanges it for an access token via the back channel and then
uses it to access the /userinfo endpoint.
The user is now authenticated,
and we'll have an active session with the web server, hence the
bundle file is then sent and loaded in their browser.
The single‑page application then makes AJAX REST calls
to the Spring Security back end,
and the browser will include the cookie automatically for
all these requests, hence why the controllers in our
application are now REST controllers.
The demo for this module is based off my previous course where we secured
a single‑page application using form and basic login, so it's worth
checking this module out. In this module, however,
I'm stripping out all that authentication code and configuring the
application to be a client of Keycloak using OpenID Connect.
The configuration is very similar to the previous modules. We
have the spring‑boot‑starter‑oauth2‑client dependency, and in
our application.yml file, we have the same clients we registered
in the previous modules, which include the client‑id, secret, nothing new here.
The SecurityConfiguration adapter is also very similar. All requests
need to be authenticated, and we are using oauth2Login.
If the user is not authenticated,
we will redirect them to the authorization endpoint,
which will initiate the OAuth 2 authorization code flow to
authenticate this user using OpenID Connect.
One slight difference is we are now including a cookie for
cross‑site request forgery protection as this is a single‑page
application, so you can output the cross‑site request forgery
token in a hidden form field.
And yes,
you do need cross‑site request forgery protection
even for single‑page applications.
Now, all the requests to /portfolio, I am just forwarding to the root.
With my default, Spring will return the index.html page. That will then
load the bundle.js file in the user's browser,
which is the React version of the crypto‑portfolio application.
Okay, let's test this all out.
As you can see,
Spring Security redirected us to Keycloak as we're not authenticated.
If we sign in as Victoria,
the bundle.js then loads in our browser, and we are now
interacting with a single‑page application.
You can see the AJAX REST calls being sent to the Spring back end,
which are authenticated by the cookies in the header.
The browser automatically includes the cookies for us.
Nice, and simple, and secure.
This is what is known as the Backend for Frontend pattern.
Our front end deals with only one back‑end API,
so all requests are same as the origin, hence we don't
need to worry about call's headers.
Our client ID and secret are securely stored server
side and not exposed to the front end.
The browser and front end never get exposed to any access or refresh tokens.
If you need to call a third‑party API or microservice using the access token,
then the back end handles that. This is, by far, the best way
to secure your single‑page application.
But next,
let's look at the challenges and considerations you need to consider if you were to perform the OAuth 2 login flow on your SPA.